.\"	Copyright (C) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"	as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\"	02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\"
.\" Process this file with "groff -man -Tascii"
.\"
.TH "hlmaster.gameserver" "1" "22 June 2001" "HLMaster" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
.BR "hlmaster.gameserver" " \- How to configure your gameserver to send heartbeats to hlmaster."

.SH DESCRIPTION
If you want to get your gameserver dynamically added/removed from
your master-server, you'll have to add an entry into the file
.IR "woncomm.lst" "."
This file is located within the gameservers mod directory (eg. valve, cstrike, tfc...).
.br
There might be no
.I woncomm.lst
in a mods directory, but that doesnt really matter. You can either copy the one found in
the valve directory, or just leave it there and edit it. If Half-Life does not find a
.I "woncomm.lst"
in the mod's directory, it defaults to using the one found in the valve directory.

After editing your
.IR "woncomm.lst" ","
it's required to restart your gameserver for the changes to take effect. To verify,
your gameserver is really sending heartbeats to your master, you can go to the
Half-Life console and enter
.IR "'setmaster'" " - respectivly " "'rcon setmaster'" "."
.br
You should now get a lists of the currently configured master-servers. You can also
add a master-server, while half-life is running. This is performed with
.IB "'setmaster add " "ip port'"
- where
.B ip
is your master server's ip-address (eg. 194.209.69.205) and
.B port
is it's port-number (normally 27010).

NOTE: Configuration changes made with the setmaster
command only remain active till next gameserver shutdown. Therefore, you'll
have to edit your
.I woncomm.lst
anyway.

.SH EXAMPLES
An example
.I woncomm.lst
is provided within the examples directory of the source distribution. However, here's
a short example of the master section:

.nf
	Master
	{
.B			your.server.com:27010
		half-life.east.won.net:27010 
		half-life.west.won.net:27010
		half-life.central.won.net:27010	
	}
.fi

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH AUTHOR
Silvan Minghetti <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "LEGAL NOTES"
Half-Life is a trademark of valve software.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "hlmaster" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.list" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.filter" "(1)"

Check http://hlmaster.sourceforge.net for newest version.
