.\"	Copyright (C) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"	as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\"	02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\"
.\" Process this file with "groff -man -Tascii"
.\"
.TH "hlmaster.list" "1" "22 June 2001" "HLMaster" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
.BR "hlmaster.list" " \- How to load your own list of gameservers."

.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes, how the config-file has to look like, for loading
into
.BR "hlmaster" " with the " "--server-list" " argument."
.br
You might also want to start
.BR "hlmaster" " with the " "--closed" " argument. See " "hlmaster" "(1)"
for more information.

Create an empty text-file and insert one gameserver per line
with the following syntax:

.I		type ip-address port

Please note that you cannot pass a hostname, you absolutely have to give
.B hlmaster
an
.IR "ip-address" "."
.br
The
.I port
however is not required (27015 is presumed then).
The
.IR "ip-address" " and the " "port"
have to be separated by a ':' or by at least one space/tab character. Servers
loaded by --server-list are limited to 3000. The overall limit with dynamically
added servers is 60000.
.br

The
.I type
definition has to be passed in front of the host, but you
may optionally ommit it completly (check is taken by default).

.B Available types:
.TP
.B "check"
The gameservers loaded from your list do not send heartbeats. To prevent your
list of containing dead servers, this options turns on pinging the servers
every five minutes. This is also the default, if no type was specified.
.br
Note:
.B hlmaster
automagically converts servers marked as
.B check
to 'dynamic' upon receipt of a heartbeat/challenge and thereby removes them if they stop sending beats.
.TP
.B nocheck
Servers marked with
.B nocheck
will never time out! They will remain in the list, even if
they are dead. This option actually should not be used.
.br
Note:
.BR "hlmaster" " does not convert " "nocheck" " servers upon receipt of a heartbeat."
.PP

Note: Case is not ignored! Enshure you write the type definition in lowercase.

Comments are also allowed and initiated with the familiar '#' sign. They
may begin everywhere in a line and remain active until the end of line.

Look at the SIGNALS section in the
.BR "hlmaster" "(1)"
manpage for instructions on reloading the filters, while hlmaster is running.

.SH EXAMPLES
An example
.I server.list
is provided within the examples directory of the source distribution. However, here's
a short example:

.nf
	# example hlmaster gameserver list

	# aaa swiss counterstrike
	check	194.209.69.205:27015

	# l33t s3rv3r, n3v3r d0wn
	nocheck	194.209.69.205:27020
	
	# some other servers
	123.123.123.123	27015
	234.234.234.234	27015
.fi

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH AUTHOR
Silvan Minghetti <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "LEGAL NOTES"
Half-Life is a trademark of valve software.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "hlmaster" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.filter" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.gameserver" "(1)"

Check http://hlmaster.sourceforge.net for newest version.
