.\"	Copyright (C) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"	as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\"	02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\"
.\" Process this file with "groff -man -Tascii"
.\"
.TH "hlmaster.filter" "1" "22 June 2001" "HLMaster" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
.BR "hlmaster.filter" " \- How to allow/block specific gameservers."

.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes, how the config-file has to look like, for loading
into
.BR "hlmaster" " with the " "--server-filter" " argument."

These filter rules allow you, to allow/deny specific gameservers and as well
complete networks.
.br
You can however not ban a gameserver upon his port. At least one ip-address
is filtered.

Please note, that server filtering has not been tested through and through yet.

.SH COMMANDS
Commands are case-sensitive, so enshure you write them all in lowercase and only
one command per line.

The following commands are used to configure some basic settings:
.TP
.BI "default " "allow" " | " "deny"
This sets the default behaviour, what to do, if no specific filter rule could
be found.
.br
If you ommit this default rule,
.I deny
will be applied.
.TP
.BI "order " "allow" " | " "deny"
This determines, if a deny rule takes precedence over an allow rule and
vice versa.
.PP

Now, the commands used to deny/allow hosts/networks:

.BI "	allow " "ip-address" " [ " "netmask" " ]"
.br
.BI "	deny  " "ip-address" " [ " "netmask" " ]"
.PP

This will allow or deny the host given by
.IR "ip-address" " (hostnames are not allowed)."
If no
.I netmask
is given, 255.255.255.255 is assumed - wich leads to filtering a single
host. And this is normally exactly what you want.
.br
I'm not going to describe netmasks any further, you will never need them
anyway...

Comments are also allowed and initiated with the familiar '#' sign. They
may begin everywhere in a line and remain active until the end of line.

Look at the SIGNALS section in the
.BR "hlmaster" "(1)"
manpage for instructions on reloading the filters, while hlmaster is running.

.SH EXAMPLES
An example
.I filter.list
is provided within the examples directory of the source distribution. However, here's
a short example:

.nf
	# example hlmaster filter list

	order deny
	default allow

	# aaa swiss counterstrike
	allow	194.209.69.205

	# some sux0rz
	deny 123.123.123.123
	deny 194.216.124.21

	# localhost network
	deny 127.0.0.0	255.0.0.0
	
.fi

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH AUTHOR
Silvan Minghetti <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "LEGAL NOTES"
Half-Life is a trademark of valve software.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "hlmaster" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.list" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.gameserver" "(1)"

Check http://hlmaster.sourceforge.net for newest version.
