.\"	Copyright (C) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"	as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\"	02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\"
.\" Process this file with "groff -man -Tascii"
.\"
.TH "hlmaster" "1" "22 December 2001" "HLMaster" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
.BR "hlmaster" " \- A Half-Life master server daemon (made in switzerland)"

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hlmaster [
.I options
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hlmaster
is a standalone, automatic master server for Half-Life. It accepts
heartbeats from gameservers and keeps an actual list of gameservers.
.br

To get a gameserver listet by hlmaster, you'll have to configure it
accordingly. See
.BR "hlmaster.gameserver" "(1)"
for more information.

Additionally, you might want to load a list of servers from a file.
This is not the normal operation for a real master-server, but it's
a nice feature for your own little master. See
.BR "hlmaster.list" "(1)"
for more information.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
Display version of
.B hlmaster
and exit.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Print a help screen.
.TP
.BI "-n " "number" ", --log-level=" "number"
Set log level of the info-log as numeric value. (0=none, 1=critical,
2=error, 3=warning, 4=info, 5=debug). The default level is 4 (info).
.TP
.B "-d, --no-daemon"
If activated,
.B hlmaster
does not go to background at startup. This is usefull for
debugging and is turned off by default.
.TP
.BI "-u " "user" ", --user=" "user"
.RB "Run " "hlmaster"
.RI "as " "user" "."
.TP
.BI "-g " "group" ", --group=" "group"
.RB "Run " "hlmaster"
.RI "as " "group" "."
.TP
.BI "-a " "address" ", --ip-address=" "address"
Set the network interface
.I address
to listen on. You'll have to supply a numeric ip-address,
hostnames are not resolved. The default is to listen
on all interfaces (0.0.0.0).
.TP
.BI "-p " "port" ", --port=" "port"
Set the
.I port
to listen on. The default is 27010, which is also the
official port for Half-Life master servers.
.TP
.BI "-s " "name" ", --master-name=" "name"
Set the
.IR "name" ","
the master server will report to clients. Though
I do not really know, if this feature is used by any client.
.TP
.BI "-m " "number" ", --max-servers=" "number"
Set the maximum
.I number
of gameservers, that are allowed to fit in the list. The
default is 200, the absolute maximum 60000.
.br Please note: Current gamespy versions are not able to
fetch more than 230 servers (they use an old protocol).
.TP
.BI "-l " "file" ", --server-list=" "file"
Load a list of gameservers (max. 3000) from
.I file.
See
.BR "hlmaster.list" "(1)"
for further information.
.TP
.B "-c, --closed"
If activated, the master does not accept any heartbeats. You will
have to specify a list of gameservers to be loaded, otherwise
.B hlmaster
would have nothing to do.
.TP
.BI "-P " "file" ", --pid-file=" "file"
Write process id (PID) to
.IR "file" "."
Remember to use absolute paths, if you start
.B hlmaster
as daemon process.
.TP
.BI "-I " "file" ", --info-log=" "file"
Log informations to
.I file.
Remember to use absolute paths, if you start
.B hlmaster
as daemon process.
.TP
.BI "-A " "file" ", --access-log=" "file"
Log access information to file. Remember to use absolute paths,
if you start
.B hlmaster
as daemon process.

.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Abort
.B hlmaster
immediatly.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload configuration and logfiles.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Reload configuration files only. Please note, that the configuration files are
not reloaded immediatly, but allways before the next request.
.TP
.B SIGUSR2
Reload logfiles only.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH AUTHOR
Silvan Minghetti <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "LEGAL NOTES"
Half-Life is a trademark of valve software.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "hlmaster.list" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.filter" "(1),"
.BR "hlmaster.gameserver" "(1)"

Check http://hlmaster.sourceforge.net for newest version.
